Linux KMS driver for Geode LX
-----------------------------

Developed for and on my Flepo alpha PC, which is driven by the AMD Geode
LX and its companion chip CS5536.

It's available via git in this repository under the GPLv2 license.

Up to now it can do modesetting, user-space notification of vertical
blanking events and perform page-flipping. There is no support for DMA
IOCTLs or the like, but the dumb buffer API for KMS is fully supported,
currently through the use of the dumb memrange allocator drm_mm.

Also so far it can acquire EDID data from a capable monitor connected via
VGA and perform DAC load detection by driving the analog outputs with a
pixel value just under half intensity and comparing the actual voltage
level to a reference set to 0.35V by the manufacturer.

Although the chip supports a flat panel connector, my Flepo PC doesn't have
it wired up to anything, so I haven't been able to test that circutry and
so far there is no support for either flat panels or the Video Output Port
(which uses the same connector), but that should change in the future,
as one of the developers of the "classic" X.org-driver xf86-video-geode
on #geode on FreeNode owning an OLPC XO-1, that also features an AMD Geode
(and a flat panel, of course), has offered to run tests. Thanks leio.

The motivation behind this driver originated from the Pong I built for this
board, featuring a (nice) variant of the 8051 microcontroller. It is driving
the GPIOs to produce a valid VGA signal to be displayed on a regular monitor.

Also the afore mentioned leio has pointed me to some performance issues
their UMS driver currently has regarding EXA and some needless memory copy
operations, that I hope to be able to alleviate through the KMS driver.

Dave Airlie has been so kind to provide a new branch called restart for
xf86-video-modesetting that not only compiles (unlike the original version
of the driver), but also provides support for a hardware accelerated pointer
using (only!) the KMS API. Using this driver, lx can already be tested, though
no acceleration other than the cursor is available through the pure KMS API.
Unfortunately as the kernel's DRM API still lacks a means to communicate
the available/valid cursor dimensions/depths, xf86-video-modesetting needs
patching to request only a 48x64 sizes cursor buffer as the kernel driver will
deny any other surface sizes (due to the lack of hardware support).  However,
I'm expecting this to change, as soon as an API for this has stabilized and
landed in the kernel. A discussion of this matter may be found in this thread
<http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/dri-devel/2011-September/014680.html>
on the dri-devel mailinglist.

-- Franz Brauße <dev@karlchenofhell.org> 19.12.2010, 15:42
